With our grid now in place,
we can actually start using it now
by building the About section,
so the section that comes after the header,
but there's a lot more to do in this section,
and so in this lecture, or to be more precise,
while we build this section,
which is actually gonna take more than just one lecture,
you are gonna learn how to think about components
and where to place our code in the overall CSS architecture.
You'll also learn about utility classes,
how to use the background-clip property,
especially with text,
how to transform multiple properties at the same time,
how to use the outline-offset property
together with outline, and finally,
how to style elements that are not hovered
while other elements are, and this will give us
a really cool effect as you will see.
So, this is the section that we're gonna build next.
So we started with the header here,
and then now, we're going to build this section here.
Now before writing a single line of code,
let's remember our think, build, architect mindset
that we talked about before, right?
So let's think and break it down
what we have to build in this section.
So first up, we have this heading here,
and so this is an element of the typography,
and this here as well, so this is another heading,
and this is simply a paragraph.
And so, these should probably go
into our typography file, right?
Then we also have this small button here, okay.
So think of this as a secondary button,
so up here, we have the main button, okay,
and then here, we have this,
like this smaller secondary button, so that's the left side,
and actually, this is already using the grid,
so we have two columns here, one on the left,
and one on the right, okay?
And see here on this side,
we have this image composition here, so these three images
where the one that we hover comes to the top,
and the other ones become smaller.
You see it?
So we hover, this one becomes bigger,
and the other one become smaller,
and we also have this green border around the image,
so that's all so that I can show you
a couple more CSS properties
which you can then use on your own sites in the future.
So this part here, this image composition,
I'm going to treat it as a component actually,
so a reusable piece of code, or let's say, a module,
that we can use on other parts of our site,
like imagine that this natures company is going to grow
and they will have a bigger website with lots of pages,
and then, maybe we're going to want to use
this image composition here somewhere else,
so on the other pages, and so we should build this
as a single component which will stay independent
and also, in its own file.
Okay, so that's what we're going to build here.
Also we need to set some styles for this,
this section, this oval section, right, this container
where all of this is going to be inside, right?
So you see it has this slightly gray background here,
so this outside here, we have the white background.
Then here, this is slightly gray, okay.
And so, we also have to have some styles for that.
All right, so let's start with the HTML
such as we did before.
So in here, we have the header first,
and so let's now create a main element.
So this is another HTML5 element,
and this is just to tell search engines,
or screen readers that this is really
the main part of our site.
So we have the header.
We have then the main part,
which will contain the rest of the website,
and then finally, at the end,
we're also gonna have a footer, okay?
So this is like just a huge container
which will contain most of our website
because that's the main part.
Now before we continue writing HTML,
there is actually something that I want to show you,
and that's called Emmet, and this is basically
an extension that you can install on your text editor.
I can bracket and add them in in Sublime,
and of course, also in Visual Studio code.
It's like an extension which allows us
to write HTML a lot faster.
And so, from this part on, I am going to start using that
because this is actually a CSS course,
and I don't want to spend so much time
writing all this HTML and make you lose your time
by watching me typing all this HTML.
And so, I'm gonna use this Emmet extension
and I highly encourage you to try it as well,
and so do it alongside with me
because this will make your life a lot easier
when writing HTML, and it's very simple.
There's just two or three rules that you need to know
and then you're good to go and it will make
your coding a lot faster in HTML.
So imagine that you want to write a div with the class test.
All you have to do is write dot test,
and then hit Tab, and that's it.
So it wrote a div with a class of test,
and it already closed this div element for you as well,
and so now, you can start writing the HTML in here,
so great, right.
So for a div, you can just start
with a dot and then the class.
Now if you want another element,
like a section like we want now,
you actually have to write the name
of the HTML element first, so section,
and now, the class, dot, and I'm gonna call this section,
the section about, and now I hit Tab, remember?
And that's it.
So now we have a section called section-about.
Got that?
So again, I highly encourage you to go download
that package for your text editor
so that you can follow along with me
as I type the code this way.
All right, so let's now start
with the h2 element actually that we talked about before,
so h2 dot, I'm gonna call it heading-secondary.
Remember we already have a heading-primary for the h1
and so this one is the heading-secondary.
So I'm using Emmet here again.
Now I hit, Tab, and that's it.
So the text here is
Exciting tours for adventurous people.
Okay, so let's start by styling actually this section.
And where should we put this in our CSS architecture?
What do you think?
Well, I'm going to put it in the home.scss file.
That's because this is a style
very specific to the homepage,
so this landing page that we're coding currently.
So nowhere else on this entire website,
even if it grows to many more pages,
nowhere else there will be a section-about,
at least not one similar to this,
and so this is a specific style of our homepage,
and this is why I'm putting it right here,
so section-about.
And let's start with the background color here, okay.
So background-color
and now we have a color here, so once again,
let's declare a variable for that.
So we have a very light gray,
and so I'm gonna call it
color-gray-light,
and actually I'm gonna call it one
because I already know that there will be
multiple gray colors, okay?
So f7f7f7.
This is a very nice and subtle gray color,
very similar to white, but it gives us a little bit,
a very subtle contrast to the white color,
and so let's copy that name, actually,
and put it here.
Good.
Now some padding,
so let's put 25rem let's say, on the top
and also on the bottom, okay.
So I'm using 25rem here because, let me show you why.
This is our page.
And here we go.
So you see that our section is starting right here,
where it actually makes sense,
so right after this header right, so we have this header,
and then from here is where our section starts,
but this gives us this problem
that we have this wide wedge here, so this triangle,
and we want to get rid of that,
and so we need to somehow move up this entire part.
Now how much is this here, actually?
There's actually a way to find out,
so let's take a look, and it is in the header file.
So you see that the height of the header is 95vh,
so 95% of the height of the viewport,
and then we know that this polygon on the right side
goes until 75vh, right?
So from here to here, it's 75,
and from here to here, so like to here, it's 95,
and so the difference has to be 20,
so 20vh is the difference, 95 minus 75.
Make sense?
So let's then do that.
And to move up this entire thing,
we can actually specify the top margin.
So margin-top, and then we give it a negative margin,
and so instead of moving down, it moves up.
Vh, and let's take a look.
And so, here we go, so now,
it moved here up until this point.
Now we have a lot of space down here,
but we can always change and fix that later.
So for now, let's just worry about this h2 here, right?
So as we were saying, this h2 is part of our typography,
so let's go to that file
and write our heading-secondary
block in there, so.
So let's start with some basic styles like the font size.
Font-size 3.5rem, so 35 pixels.
Text-transform of uppercase.
Okay and let's say we want a font-weight of 700,
so it's quite a bold text like this, okay.
So let's take a look now,
and here we go.
Now what's special about the h2 that we're gonna do
is take a look, like crazy style here when we hover it.
This is just to show you some more CSS stuff.
But what's really cool here is actually this gradient,
so this gradient color that we have going on here
right inside the text,
so you see this side here is this light green.
It moves all the way to our darkest green,
so this is a really nice effect.
I think it looks really modern,
and so, let me show you how to do it.
So the trick is to first set the background
of the entire h2, so of this entire element to a gradient.
So the background image will be a linear gradient,
and we have done that before,
so we want it to go to the right,
so basically, from the left to right,
and the colors are remember, or color-primary-light,
and color-primary-dark.
Remember, we defined them here before.
So color primary light and dark.
Let me actually close this one here.
That makes sense as well and the package,
and also the grid, so not too many files open here now.
That's better, so let's take a look.
And all right.
Now what we want next is this gradient only to go
all until this here, so we want it to stop
where the text stops, basically.
So how can we do that this element
does not occupy 100% of its available width?
So right now, it's a block element,
and that's why it does that, but if we change it,
it will no longer do it,
and what do we have to change it to?
That's right, so display inline-block,
and if you take a look now,
that's much better.
Okay, and now the next step in making
that effect happen with the gradient behind the text.
So what we're gonna do is to use
the brand new webkit background-clip property,
and it's so new that we actually have to use
just webkit prefix, so webkit,
background-clip.
All right, so we set this property to text.
And so what happens now is that
the background gets clipped exactly where the text is,
so again, we set this background-clip property to text,
and what this is going to do is that it will clip
the background, and in this case,
that's this linear-gradient, it will clip it
to exactly the places where the text sits,
and so therefore this background image or this gradient
will only be visible where the text is.
Now what we want to see then is to not actually the text,
but the background image,
so imagine that right now we have the background image
only where the text is, then on top of that,
we have the text, so let's make the text transparent
so that we can see the background image,
so the linear-gradient.
So what we can do is very simply
set the color to transparent.
And that's it.
Let's check it out now.
And here we go.
So, that's our effect.
Let me just inspect this one
and show you what happens if we do not do this one's parent.
Then what happens is that you see the text
which sits on top of the clipped background,
and so we want to make this text invisible, so transparent,
and so now, you can see this really nice gradient,
so that's gonna take care of this,
like this crazy fact that we have going on here, right?
So this one.
Let's go back here, and so now, this happens on hover.
So by now, you already know how to do it.
We have the sass nesting,
so this will translate to heading-secondary and &hover.
So these effects that you saw,
these are basically transform, and on transform,
we can actually put multiple things
at the same time that you want to transform.
So you already saw translate, translate x and y.
You already saw scale.
You also saw rotate already.
So now, let's use skew, so we can skew in the x direction
as well as in the y direction,
so let's start with the y direction.
So skew Y, and in here, we specify it in degrees,
so let's just say two degrees.
Let's take a look at what happens.
Now before that, let's also add a transition property here.
Transition property, and set it to all, point two seconds.
Also to make it a bit nicer,
we will also add some more letter spacing here.
Letter-spacing two pixels.
Now I'm using pixels here and not rem, so why is that?
Well, two pixels is such a small thing
that it doesn't really matter if it's gonna scale or not.
It's actually the exact same thing if I do point two rem,
because no matter if we increase the root font size or not,
this will probably always translate to just two pixels
because of rounding issues,
but okay, let's keep it like that.
Okay.
All right, and so that is skewing in the y direction.
Let's actually change this to like 20 degrees
so that we can see a more dramatic effect.
So something like this.
So it's not only rotating, it's really skewing
all of these letters.
Now we can also do it in the x direction,
and sometimes this makes for really, really cool effects.
We'll actually see another application of this a bit later.
I'll just put 15 degrees in here now,
so let's take a look again.
And now, it does these two at the same time.
Let me just show you what would happen
if it was only on the
on the y direction.
No, actually on the x direction, sorry.
So, on the x direction only, it looks like this, okay?
So let's put it back here, two degrees,
and now, we can also at the same time scale it a little bit.
So one point one for example, so it becomes 110%.
Also some text shadow beneath it,
and this time we can do it in two directions,
so in the x direction, let's go five pixels,
so point five rem, and in the y direction,
one rem, so 10 pixel, and 20 pixels of blur, so two rem.
And now the color, rgba
and color-black, and now,
let's give it like 20% opacity.
So point two, all right.
So let's take a look now.
And all right, so that looks pretty much
like the one we have in our original.
Now one last thing is that we should actually
center this entire thing here, right?
And the way that I prefer to do this
is to wrap this element into a parent element
and then, center the text from there,
so let me show that to you and actually
introduce you to a new concept called utility classes.
So let's actually put a div around this here,
and the class that we're gonna
put here will be called u-center-text.
What this class does is that it will very simply
center the text, which is inside of it.
Let me adjust this here a bit now.
So as I was saying, this is a utility class,
and utility classes are very simple classes in CSS,
which only have one simple goal, and in this case,
it will simply be to center text.
And why did I do it?
Why didn't I simply call it like
heading-secondary-parent or something like that?
Well I didn't do that because I want to reuse
this piece of CSS here, so this class,
which will have this CSS attached,
and also, it wouldn't make much sense
to make a whole class just for centering
this piece of text, right?
And so, utility classes are a great tool
that we should use and have in our toolbox,
so actually, we already created
this file here for utilities, and so let's put it down here.
So u-center-text.
I think that was the name, right?
I remember, u-center-text, yeah, right.
And so actually, we just need one line here.
So text-align
center, that's it.
And so now the text that we have here will become centered,
and that's because this is a inline block element now.
Remember this heading-secondary,
we defined it as an inline block,
and so, if we set the parent to text-align-center,
then that inline block element inside it
is treated as text and will therefore be centered
in the parent, so let's take a look at that,
and indeed, here it is.
All right, so we're making great progress.
Let's now move on,
and let's start by actually
using our grid for the first time,
so we have these two columns here,
so let's just implement them here.
So as I was saying, we can now come here simply
and copy this markup we already have
here from our grid test.
Now we just have to fix this fomentation here.
But that's not a big problem.
There are actually some extensions
that you can download for your text editor
which will take this pain of fomenting it from you.
All right, so let's just put some text here.
My text content will go in here
and in here, we will have our image composition.
Actually take a look in here.
And indeed, here we are.
Okay, and so when we did this,
we actually forgot to remove these colors here,
so let's quickly do that,
and open up our grid file again,
and let's create gray gradients
of this background color, and of this one.
Save and close.
Now another thing that I noticed here was
this lack of space that we have here,
so we should have some space between the h2 element
and of course, the content that comes after it.
Now we could quickly go ahead and simply add
some margin to our heading-secondary element, right?
And that would be no problem in doing so,
but the thing is that we can already start thinking ahead,
and so, let's take a look at what we have here.
So there is another h2 here.
There's another one.
There's another one,
and let me show you where another one is,
and it's here, okay,
and what you're starting to notice now is that
the spacing that's behind them is not always the same,
and that actually makes a lot of sense,
because remember, we wanted this element
or this block to be independent
and reusable across the page,
but if we now go ahead and add a margin to the bottom
of let's say 80 pixels or something,
then that would influence the way that we could use
the secondary heading across our page.
So for example here, we don't want any of that margin.
And I think, also in here,
it's a different margin here as well,
and so, what we should do in this specific place
is to use another utility class.
So we're gonna use another utility class here,
and this one will be called u-margin-bottom-80,
or eight actually for eight rem,
so here we have another utility class
which allows us to very easily
set some margins across our page
in a very simple way, which at the same time,
allow our main components, or blocks, or elements
to stay independent and reusable across the page.
So that's the reason why we used this utility class here,
and that's the reason why we're going to use
this utility class as well.
And so what I want you to do is to always think like this.
That's why I'm insisting so much all the time
in these reusable, independent, and all of that stuff, okay?
It's because I want you to get used to this notion,
to this way of thinking about our interfaces.
Okay, with that in mind, let's define actually this class.
So margin-bottom
80, or 8rem.
And so, of course later, when we come to that popup
that I just showed you, we will then have to define
another utility class for that specific margin
that we want by rem.
Does that make sense?
So let's just check it out,
and finally,
and yeah, so now we have some nice spacing going on here.
All right, and that should be enough for one lecture.
Let's leave the other stuff that we want to do
so putting the text content here,
and the image composition on this side.
Let's leave that for the next lecture
so that you can take a break.